<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Chapter 1</title>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body class="mainbody"><article class="post-75576 post type-post status-publish format-standard hentry category-data-source category-economics category-law category-travel category-uncategorized" id="post-75576">
<header>
<h1>Do female board members matter?</h1>
<div>
        by  <span><a href="/about">Tyler Cowen</a></span>
<time>March 14, 2019 at 12:58 am </time>
                  in
          <ul>
<li><a href="https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/category/data-source">Data Source</a></li>
<li><a href="https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/category/economics">Economics</a></li>
<li><a href="https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/category/law">Law</a></li>
<li><a href="https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/category/travel">Travel</a></li>
</ul><!-- /.entry-tags -->
</div><!-- /.byline -->
</header><!-- /.entry-header -->
<div>
<div><p>Maybe less than you might think, at least once you adjust for geographic distance:</p>
<blockquote><p>Recent literature has shown that gender diversity in the boardroom seems to influence key monitoring decisions of boards. In this paper, we examine whether the observed relation between gender diversity and board decisions is due to a confounding factor, namely, directors’ geographic distance from headquarters. Using data on residential addresses for over 4,000 directors of S&amp;P 1500 firms, we document that female directors cluster in large metropolitan areas and tend to live much farther away from headquarters compared to their male counterparts. We also reexamine prior findings in the literature on how boardroom gender diversity affects key board decisions. We use data on direct airline flights between U.S. locations to carry out an instrumental variables approach that exploits plausibly exogenous variation in both gender diversity and geographic distance. The results show that the effects of boardroom gender diversity on CEO compensation and CEO dismissal decisions found in the prior literature largely disappear when we account for geographic distance. Overall, our results support the view that gender-diverse boards are “tougher monitors” not because of gender differences per se, but rather because they are more geographically remote from headquarters and hence more reliant on hard information such as stock prices. The findings thus suggest that board gender policies, such as quotas, could have unintended consequences for some firms.</p></blockquote>
<p>Here is <a href="https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3336445">the paper</a> by Zinat S. Alam, Mark A. Chen, Conrad S. Ciccotello, and Harley E. Ryan.  Via the excellent <a href="https://www.nationalaffairs.com/blog/detail/findings-a-daily-roundup/caring-about-them">Kevin Lewis</a>.</p>
</div>
</div><!-- /.entry-content -->
<footer>
<section>
<ul>
<li>
<a href="https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2019/03/do-female-board-members-matter.html#comments">
<i/>
<span>2 Comments</span>
</a>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>
<a href="//www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fmarginalrevolution.com%2Fmarginalrevolution%2F2019%2F03%2Fdo-female-board-members-matter.html">
<span>Facebook</span>
<i/>
</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="//twitter.com/home?status=https%3A%2F%2Fmarginalrevolution.com%2Fmarginalrevolution%2F2019%2F03%2Fdo-female-board-members-matter.html">
<span>Twitter</span>
<i/>
</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="/feed">
<span>RSS Feed</span>
<i/>
</a>
</li>
</ul><!-- /.post-social -->
<ul>
<li>
<a href="https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2019/03/do-female-board-members-matter.html#print">
<i/>
<span>print</span>
</a>
</li>
</ul><!-- /.entry-meta -->
</section><!-- /.post-actions -->
<section>
<div>
<h2>Comments</h2>
<article>
<div>
<h3>Michael</h3>
<time>March 14, 2019 at 1:03 am </time>
    
      <a href="#">Hide Replies</a>
<span><a href="#blog-comment-159918324">1</a></span>
</div><!-- /.byline -->
<div>
<p>First!</p>
</div><!-- /.comment-content -->
<section>
<a href="#">Respond</a>
<!-- /.comment-form -->
</section><!-- /.comment-respond --> </article><!-- /.blog-comment --> <article>
<div>
<h3>Tom Murin</h3>
<time>March 14, 2019 at 1:30 am </time>
    
      <a href="#">Hide Replies</a>
<span><a href="#blog-comment-159918326">2</a></span>
</div><!-- /.byline -->
<div>
<p>For virtue signaling, at a minimum.</p>
</div><!-- /.comment-content -->
<section>
<a href="#">Respond</a>
<!-- /.comment-form -->
</section><!-- /.comment-respond --> </article><!-- /.blog-comment -->
<section>
<a href="#">Respond</a>
<!-- /.comment-form -->
</section><!-- /.comment-respond -->
</div><!-- /.comments -->
</section><!-- /.comment-box -->
</footer><!-- /.entry-footer -->
</article></body>
</html>